```{post} Jan 16, 2025
:category: link-blog
```

# Travel bag research

I've been looking into good bags to use for hiking and work travel, as I
often want to combine a work trip and a hiking trip. The [onebag
reddit](https://reddit.com/r/onebag) is kind of overwhelming, but a
reasonable place to start research on this.

I wanted bags that were solid for hiking, but also still fit as carry on
luggage. I ended up finding some of the hiking brands that I trust also
have tried to get into this market, and both look interesting.

## ULA Camino

![caption\...](/_static/img/substack/travel-bag-research_image_1.jpeg)

The [ULA Camino](https://www.ula-equipment.com/product/camino/) (55L)
fit the bill pretty effectively. I actually hiked with a ULA Circuit
when I did the Pacific Crest Trail, and so ULA is a brand that I trust.

What I liked most is that it packs down to carry on size by folding the
roll top down all the way. But when you're actually doing a hike, you
can expand it and get additional storage for food, etc.

## Six Moons Designs All Day Carry Travel Backpack

![](/_static/img/substack/travel-bag-research_image_2.webp)

This is the [ADC Travel
Backpack](https://www.sixmoondesigns.com/products/all-day-carry-travel-backpack?variant=47724023709980)
(45L). I used a Six Moons Designs tent (the Lunar Solo) as well when
hiking the PCT, and I have a friend that works for them. I like the look
of this pack a bit more, looking less like a hiking pack, but still has
the full suspension of a backpacking pack.

The main downside here is the smaller size, though still being pretty
large. I traveled with a [40L Osprey
Farpoint](https://www.osprey.com/farpoint-40-travel-pack-farpont40f22-296?size=O%2FS&color=Muted+Space+Blue#color=Muted%2520Space%2520Blue)
in previous travels, and it worked well, but was pretty small for doing
more than 1-2 nights in the back country.

## Other recommendations

I haven't pulled the trigger on either bag yet, and curious if folks
have other recommendations. There's a whole wide world of bags out
there, and it's a bit overwhelming!

I'll try and write an updated review once I actually buy and use one.
